Now the next thing I want to talk about is what should you do after your campaign is ended so that you
can continue generating presales.
So one of the reasons why I tend to recommend people who want to go down the crowdfunding route especially
reward based crowdfunding to go for a Kickstarter campaign is because Kickstarter has the largest amount
of traffic.
Largest number of backers.
Therefore you're going to generate more revenue.
Now afterwards though you can consider moving your completed Kickstarter campaign to Indy go go and
continue running your campaign afterward.
And this is because Indiegogo has a program called Indigo in demand and what that means is that actually
your main crowdfunding campaign is finished.
You can transfer all your data go Indiegogo and you can continue raising money for your product until
the day that you're ready to ship.
So there's a lot of people who do this and this is a recent project that we saw on Kickstarter called
upright and go that helps you to fix your screen slouch and they raised over a million dollars on Kickstarter.
And after their kickstarter ended they moved their project to Indiegogo under the in-demand category
and they continued raising money on this platform until the day that they were ready to launch.
Now maybe it might be that your perks on here are ever so slightly expensive like one or two dollars
more expensive but it means that you can continue raising money until the day that you ship which can
actually be quite significant.
So if you compare this at the end of the Kickstarter project it was one million 118 thousand and now
they're on one million two hundred forty five thousand.
So that's another 100000 that was raised by having it on Indiegogo.
So it's well worth considering putting your project on in demand.
Now another thing that you should probably get familiar with especially if you're delivering physical
goods is a tool called back pocket.
Now it's well-known that Kickstarter is own backor information collection service is kind of poor.
You only get to send your back as one survey and within that one survey they have to give you their
name their address where they want it delivered to.
They have to put in their selections for say if your product has different colors or if your product
has different sizes then they have to put those in and they can't change it ever again.
You can't send them another serving.
So then there's a lot of e-mail back and forth Oh a moving address.
Can you change my address.
And you have to go into a spreadsheet and manually edited etc etc..
So Bacchic it saves you from all of that hassle.
You can send people surveys and they can log in to change those surveys at any point in time.
They can also pledge for a tier above so they can they can put in extra money in order to upgrade their
rewards.
And also you can find their shipping address and they can update their shipping address when and as
needed.
So it's a really neat tool to help him manage all of your inventory and all of your post-campaign delivery
problems now this is a really really important point you need to put out updates after your campaign
has ended.
If your delivery date is delayed or if anything that was not predicted happens any of the unknown unknowns
happens.
You have to show people what happened where you are at which stage you are of production because people
on Kickstarter and Indiegogo have been burnt a lot of times.
There have been a lot of creators who have run away with people's hard earned money and you have to
do extra work in order to reassure people that everything's OK.
You know and that unexpected things happen and people will understand they want to be in the loop so
don't disappear off the face of the earth.
So maybe just give people an update every two weeks or so.
So as you can see with these guys they actually had some issues with the original hardware and they
had to change some of the components which delayed the final shipping day.
And this happens really really frequently but because they communicated this to their backers in a timely
manner and explain themselves people weren't upset at all and they were totally understanding.
And one of the nice things is that when you have a crowdfunding campaign you really do have a community
around you people who support you and boost you.
You know all the time and every time we put up day we had all these people who are so nice and so positive
we're saying you know well done don't worry about it.
You know keep going.
Don't worry if it comes out late we don't mind.
You know just keep up the hard work and it is always like you have a fan club who are rallying around
you.
And that kept you going during the darkest of times.
And we're so so grateful for them.
So make sure that you update people on what's going on and if you go on to Google even one of the auto
suggest is Kickstarter runaway with money so you can see how prevalent this problem is.
And a lot of people have been hurt by it before.
And in fact if you look on Kickstarter a couple years back there was this project by this teenager who
said he was going to teach people iPhone app development and wrote in a lot of people to pledge for
him.
And then he completely disappeared off the face of the earth.
So the last update he put out saying that this is the final update for the release of course and that
was in 2014.
Right.
And then he was never heard of again.
And you see in the comments section there's like over a thousand comments of people just complaining
and being very very upset and very angry about what he's done.
Basically just running away with people's money and not delivering anything at all.
And you actually see his dad going on there you know apologizing for his son and saying oh you know
I'm so sorry Taylor really is a good boy but he's just done some bad things in life you know made some
wrong choices and trying to fix his errors so there's a lot of these stories are really harrowing.
So make sure that you really tell people what's going on and make sure that they realize that your project
is not a scam.
They can believe in you.
Now another thing that you don't want to do is what pebble did so pebble raised $20 million on Kickstarter
and then they announced to people that they were basically selling their company to Fitbit and they
were going to cease all operations.
Now the problem is that they put out an update telling people that you know some of the things that
they pledged for people weren't going to get.
So they were really excited about it but it's not going to be produced because the company is being
sold.
But in this update you see all these like happy smiley people placed next to these really sad bits of
news like Pebble is seizing all hardware operations.
We're no longer manufacturing promoting or selling a new product.
But then you see these pictures of pebble staff looking all happy and the team posing for pictures and
next is something like one to one pebble support is no longer available even though that's what people
pledged for.
And it riled up a lot of people.
So make sure that when you do put an update if there are no unexpected delays or if there are problems
make sure that you know you have like a corresponding tone Don't do this to rile people up.
Now after your campaign has ended and after you've done all of your presales.
Once you start manufacturing you have to consider all the various avenues that you're going to sell
your products on and something that you might not be aware of.
Is called Amazon launch pad and this is a place where you can that list your innovative crowdfunded
ideas to be distributed and sold by Amazon.
So a lot of people go on here to see what can I get right now that is launched on crowdfunding.
But that is shipping right now.
That's innovative and cool.
So you can put your projects on here for consideration and it has to be a physical product.
Now you could also just simply set up your own web site to sell your product after it's been crowdfunded.
So you could use really simple tools like Shopify create your online store or something like wude commerce
combined with wordpress.
That will also create really beautiful online stores as well.